So the file upload is working
but we still got a lot of work to do. On the server side code in posts.js
on our routes here, we obviously have our
multer code in place here
but we're not using the file we stored,
we're not really doing anything with that file, are we?
We're not storing the path in the database for example
and we're of course not passing the path back to the user. Now to do that, we can utilize something multer does
for us.
It does actually give us the information about the file it stored in the request body in our handler
function here.
So when we create a new post which we want to store in the database, we can also store an image path let's
say, now that image path is something our model doesn't expect though.
So let's first of all go to the post model and add a new field to it, image path which is of type string
and which is required and it will simply be the path to the file on our back-end. Now with that added,
let's go here,
image path
and now the path I want to store here should be a URL to that file.
Now to construct that URL, I will first of all get the URL of our server and store it in a URL constant.
We can get that from the request,
there is a protocol property which returns whether we're accessing the server with HTTP or HTTPS,
then I'll add :// to create a full URL and then I can get my current host with
request get host.
Now this simply constructs a URL to our server
and I want to have this because now my image path will be my URL and then /images,
this is where we store our files and now important, we are of course store it in back-end images
but we will configure this folder to be accessible directly after our domain and I will show you how
this works in a second.
So I just want to be able to enter my domain/images and then the file name and that's the part
multer does for us, we can access request
and then there will be a file property provided by multer and that will have the file name.
So now this is the image path I want to store in the database.
Thereafter we return a response and there of course, I don't just want to return the post ID, we probably
want to return the entire post instead.
So let's return a post here which is a Javascript object where we actually have an ID field which is
createdPost._id because remember, it's stored on _id in MongoDB, where we have
a title that will be createdPost.title,
where we'll have a content,
this will of course be createdPost.content, whoops, content and where we also will have that image path
which is createdPost.imagePath.
So yes, we could just return created post but I want it to remap that ID.
One way to shorten this though is you can use a next gen Javascript feature where you create a new
object and then you use the spread operator to copy all properties of another object and then you
simply add or overwrite some selected properties,
so this will create an object with all the properties of the created post and it will set that extra
ID here. So this is the post I want to return,
now let's use that on the client in the post service. There
I will now get back my post, so the data I get back will actually be a post property next to the message
which will be of type post,
at least it will have all the properties this post has
and therefore we can extract the ID of the post which was created with post ID here and we can also
extract the title and content like this
but we can also stick to the ones we got from the form,
they should be the same.
Now the image path is something our front-end model doesn't reflect.
So let's go to that model and also add the image path here,
it should be a string. And in posts service,
we now of course have to use this when we create a new post here, there I'll set image path to response
data post image
path and we also got the error down there where we construct a new post. Here where we update
a post,
we don't have an image path yet, though this will soon change,
for now let's simply set it to null.
We also have an error in the post create component
now, there we also construct a new post and there, we should also set image path to null for now and
we'll revisit this later.
So now we're getting back that post information and we're using it to store it in our post on the front-end,
on the newly created post there.
Now when we're getting posts, which happens when we visit our messages page, we of course also transform
posts here and there, we should also add the image path.
So here I'll set image path equal to post image path because I know what I get back from my server should
have an image path for every post because we're now saving this and on our server side code, for this get
route where we get all posts,
well we simply return the data from our database and an image path should be saved from now on.
Of course our older posts won't have images, we'll simply delete them in a second.
So now we're adding this image path on the front-end too,
we're returning the data from the back-end.
Let's next
make sure that we actually render this on the screen on the front-end.